Autoperf (#358)
OpenMPDK/xNVMe: cijoe/templates/perf_report/bench.jinja2.rst

Audience
========

This report is of interest for those curious about:

* Storage Abstraction Layer overhead and encapsulation

  - The efficient Linux interfaces (``io_uring`` and ``io_uring_cmd``)
  - The legacy Linux interfaces (``libaio``)
  - And how these can be encapsulated with minimal overhead with **xNVMe**

* The xNVMe project

  - The integration of xNVMe in SPDK via ``bdev_xnvme``
  - Efficiency of ``bdev_xnvme`` compared to ``bdev_uring`` / ``bdev_aio`` / ``bdev_nvme``

For the report a bit of background on **xNVMe** is needed, as such, provided in the following section.

What is xNVMe?
--------------

**xNVMe** is a low-level storage-abstraction-layer. It is designed for
convenient use of NVMe devices, however, not limited to these. At its core
**xNVMe** provides an API operating for **commands**, that is, their
construction, subsmission, and completion. This can be a synchronous / blocking
manner, or asynchronously / non-blocking via **queues**.

This **foundational** abstraction based on **commands**, encapsulates the
command-transport and semantics usually tied to a storage interfaces.

That is, with **xNVMe** there are no assumption that the commands are

> read/write commands. There is no assumption that the commands should be

Author: right. dropping it. The report is very much a quick-n-dirty addition, making sure the "plumbing" is there for generating the report. The content itself, especially the "prose", needs improvement. But with your fixes we are off to a good start.

   PageBreak

Hardware
--------

.. note::
   **TODO**: Populate this section using the artifacts produces by CIJOE, that is, the ``lshw``.

BIOS
----

.. note::
   **TODO**: Add BIOS name and version and describe settings changed from the default.

SSD Preconditioning
-------------------

We are interested in examing relative performance of
storage-abstraction-layers, for this we are exclusively issuing reads. No
writes are sent to the devices. This is to avoid the effects of device-side
garbage-collection, write-buffer flushes etc.

Thus, currently, no pre-conditioning is done since without issuing writes, we
mitigate black-box effects of device-side logic.

.. raw:: pdf

   PageBreak

Methodology
===========

Establish roof-line:

* Maximum achievable IOPS rate possible with the given hardware.

  - Hardware SPECs 8M IOPS

* Maximum achievable IOPS rate of ``bdev_nvme``

  - Established by measuring rates obtained with ``bdevperf``

* Maximum achievable IOPS rate of ``io_uring`` and ``io_uring_cmd``

  - Established by measuring rates achieved with ``t/io_uring``

* Measure the IOPS rate of ``bdev_xnvme``, ``bdev_aio``, and ``bdev_uring``

With all the above, we can observe:

> * Compare how far the different IO storage-paths are from the HW-roofline

Author: right, rephrasing it into the paragraph.

.. raw:: pdf

   PageBreak

Results
=======

.. raw:: pdf

   PageBreak

libaio
------

Comparing ``bdev_xnvme``, with ``io_mechanism=libaio``, to ``bdev_aio``.

The line plot below displays the relationship between iodepth on the x-axis and
IOPS (Input/Output Operations Per Second) on the y-axis, illustrating how IOPS
performance varies with different iodepth values.

.. image:: bdevperf_lineplot_libaio.png
   :align: center
   :width: 100%

For ``libaio``, as shown above, the two lines overlap closely on the plot,

> indicating similar IOPS performance for both datasets across various iodepth

Reviewer: ```suggestion
indicating similar IOPS performance for ``bdev_xnvme`` with ``io_mechanism=libaio`` and ``bdev_aio`` across various iodepth
```

values

.. raw:: pdf

   PageBreak

io_uring
--------

Comparing ``bdev_xnvme``, using ``io_mechanism=io_uring``, to ``bdev_uring``.

The line plot below displays the relationship between iodepth on the x-axis and
IOPS (Input/Output Operations Per Second) on the y-axis, illustrating how IOPS
performance varies with different iodepth values.

.. image:: bdevperf_lineplot_io_uring.png
   :align: center
   :width: 100%

For ``io_uring``, as shown above, The plot reveals that without IO-polling,
then ``bdev_xnvme`` exhibits slightly lower IOPS than the reference
implementation. However, when IO-polling is enabled, there's a noticeable boost

> in IOPS, showcasing its distinct advantage.

Reviewer: Maybe it should be made more explicit that without IO-polling means with conserve cpu

Author: Good point, adding that.
